We already made sure that the grid behaves differently on different screen sizes on the discover page.
There
I did assign size and set it equal to 12 which you could remove because that's the default anyways
but then I set this strange size-sm
and offset-sm and then we assign different values and now we just have to find out what this
-sm stands for.
Indeed the Ionic grid gives you
different breakpoints for which you can set the size and offset and also push and pull which I'll
not dive in deeply
attributes and you'll find that in the official docs. Push and pull would allow you to change the order
of items based on different screen sizes,
you can learn that in the official docs, size and offset are
the more important attributes though
and there you learn
you have xs, sm, md, lg and xl as breakpoints and you see the values which are basically the pixel
values of screen width for which they will become active.
So you can just assign size and offset without any value and then this means for all screen sizes,
this column will have this size and this offset but if you add size-sm for example or offset-sm, then
you are saying for any page that has at least this width of viewport available, this size and offset
will take effect
and that's important,
this acts as a minimum.
So if you set size-sm to a column value of 6, then this means on devices that have at least a width
of this pixel value,
this size will have an effect. So desktop devices which have way more will also take that but of course
you can also add multiple breakpoint specific sizes and offsets to a fine-grained control.
So back to our new offer page here, to demonstrate this
if I set size-sm to 4 and here also size-sm to 4 and then I also add size let's say md to 2 and
I add here size-md to 3 and then I also add offset-sm of 2 and offset-md to let's say 4,
if I set all of that and this now reloads,
you will see that on a big screen
they're a bit smaller because what I basically set is that for medium-sized devices or higher and we
can see that medium-sized starts at 768 pixels of screen width, we'll actually
just occupy two of the available columns. Only if we are below these 768 pixels, we'll jump to this set
up here where we will take four columns.
So therefore now if I shrink that width here quite a bit and then at some point, I'm below that breakpoint
and by the way that pixel value here in the top right corner can be ignored, I'm zoomed in for recording
so these pixel values are not correct,
so if I basically at some point here, you'll see that certainly changed. Right here it's pretty stuffed
and we have more space.
So this is the 768 pixel breakpoint below which we'll make it into this for column with setup.
Now it is worth pointing out that this also only applies for size-sm,
so for devices that have at least 576 pixels of screen width. If we go even lower than that,
you see now we take the full available width,
so these two columns which are still next to each other in one row split the full available width. The
reason for that is that size-sm 4 only kicks in for screen sizes wider than 576 pixels and anything
below that takes the default of size 12. Now if I would set size-xs or just size here to let's say 5
and here size to 1, then we would not take the full available width but instead for the first column,
we would take five columns of width and for the last column, only 1
and that leads us to this layout which is of course not super beautiful. But this showcases how you can
control this and if you would now add a new ion-row with new ion-columns in there, these columns can
now be styled and sized totally independent of that first row.
So every row works on its own,
that is also important to understand.
You can size columns equally across rows but you don't have to.